---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "xenorchestra_vm Resource - terraform-provider-xenorchestra"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Creates a Xen Orchestra vm resource.
  Differences with the Xen Orchestra UI
  Cloudinit
  Xen Orchestra allows templating cloudinit config through its own custom mechanism:
  * "{name}" is replaced with the VM's name
  * "%" is replaced with the VM's index
  This does not work in terraform since that is applied on Xen Orchestra's client side (Javascript). Terraform provides a "templatefile" function that allows for a similar substitution. Please see the example below for more details.
---

# xenorchestra_vm (Resource)

Creates a Xen Orchestra vm resource.

## Differences with the Xen Orchestra UI

### Cloudinit

Xen Orchestra allows templating cloudinit config through its own custom mechanism:
* "{name}" is replaced with the VM's name
* "%" is replaced with the VM's index

This does not work in terraform since that is applied on Xen Orchestra's client side (Javascript). Terraform provides a "templatefile" function that allows for a similar substitution. Please see the example below for more details.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# cloud_config.tftpl file used by the cloudinit templating.

#cloud-config
hostname: ${hostname}
fqdn: ${hostname}.${domain}
package_upgrade: true
```

```hcl
# Content of the terraform files
data "xenorchestra_pool" "pool" {
    name_label = "pool name"
}

data "xenorchestra_template" "template" {
    name_label = "Puppet agent - Bionic 18.04 - 1"
}

data "xenorchestra_network" "net" {
  name_label = "Pool-wide network associated with eth0"
}

resource "xenorchestra_cloud_config" "bar" {
  name = "cloud config name"
  # Template the cloudinit if needed
  template = templatefile("cloud_config.tftpl", {
    hostname = "your-hostname"
    domain = "your.domain.com"
  })
}

resource "xenorchestra_vm" "bar" {
    memory_max = 1073733632
    cpus  = 1
    cloud_config = xenorchestra_cloud_config.bar.template
    name_label = "Name"
    name_description = "description"
    template = data.xenorchestra_template.template.id

    # Prefer to run the VM on the primary pool instance
    affinity_host = data.xenorchestra_pool.pool.master
    network {
      network_id = data.xenorchestra_network.net.id
    }

    disk {
      sr_id = "7f469400-4a2b-5624-cf62-61e522e50ea1"
      name_label = "Ubuntu Bionic Beaver 18.04_imavo"
      size = 32212254720
    }

    tags = [
      "Ubuntu",
      "Bionic",
    ]

    // Override the default create timeout from 5 mins to 20.
    timeouts {
      create = "20m"
    }
}

# vm resource that uses wait_for_ip
resource "xenorchestra_vm" "vm" {
  ...
  wait_for_ip = true
  # Specify VM with two network interfaces
  network {
    ...
  }
  network {
    ...
  }
}

output "first-network-interface-ips" {
  value = xenorchestra_vm.vm.network[0].ipv4_addresses
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cpus` (Number) The number of CPUs the VM will have. Updates to this field will cause a stop and start of the VM if the new CPU value is greater than the max CPU value. This can be determined with the following command:
```

$ xo-cli xo.getAllObjects filter='json:{"id": "cf7b5d7d-3cd5-6b7c-5025-5c935c8cd0b8"}' | jq '.[].CPUs'
{
  "max": 4,
  "number": 2
}
		    
# Updating the VM to use 3 CPUs would happen without stopping/starting the VM
# Updating the VM to use 5 CPUs would stop/start the VM
```
- `disk` (Block List, Min: 1) The disk the VM will have access to. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--disk))
- `memory_max` (Number) The amount of memory in bytes the VM will have. Updates to this field will case a stop and start of the VM if the new value is greater than the dynamic memory max. This can be determined with the following command:
```


$ xo-cli xo.getAllObjects filter='json:{"id": "cf7b5d7d-3cd5-6b7c-5025-5c935c8cd0b8"}' | jq '.[].memory.dynamic'
[
  2147483648, # memory dynamic min
  4294967296  # memory dynamic max (4GB)
]
# Updating the VM to use 3GB of memory would happen without stopping/starting the VM
# Updating the VM to use 5GB of memory would stop/start the VM
```
- `name_label` (String) The name of the VM.
- `network` (Block List, Min: 1) The network for the VM. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))
- `template` (String) The ID of the VM template to create the new VM from.

### Optional

- `affinity_host` (String) The preferred host you would like the VM to run on. If changed on an existing VM it will require a reboot for the VM to be rescheduled.
- `auto_poweron` (Boolean) If the VM will automatically turn on. Defaults to `false`.
- `blocked_operations` (Set of String) List of operations on a VM that are not permitted. Examples include: clean_reboot, clean_shutdown, hard_reboot, hard_shutdown, pause, shutdown, suspend, destroy. This can be used to prevent a VM from being destroyed. The entire list can be found here
- `cdrom` (Block List, Max: 1) The ISO that should be attached to VM. This allows you to create a VM from a diskless template (any templates available from `xe template-list`) and install the OS from the following ISO. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--cdrom))
- `cloud_config` (String) The content of the cloud-init config to use. See the cloud init docs for more [information](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/examples.html).
- `cloud_network_config` (String) The content of the cloud-init network configuration for the VM (uses [version 1](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topics/network-config-format-v1.html))
- `core_os` (Boolean)
- `cpu_cap` (Number)
- `cpu_weight` (Number)
- `destroy_cloud_config_vdi_after_boot` (Boolean) Determines whether the cloud config VDI should be deleted once the VM has booted. Defaults to `false`. If set to `true`, power_state must be set to `Running`.
- `exp_nested_hvm` (Boolean) Boolean parameter that allows a VM to use nested virtualization.
- `high_availability` (String) The restart priority for the VM. Possible values are `best-effort`, `restart` and empty string (no restarts on failure. Defaults to empty string
- `host` (String)
- `hvm_boot_firmware` (String) The firmware to use for the VM. Possible values are `bios` and `uefi`.
- `installation_method` (String) This cannot be used with `cdrom`. Possible values are `network` which allows a VM to boot via PXE.
- `name_description` (String) The description of the VM.
- `power_state` (String) The power state of the VM. This can be Running, Halted, Paused or Suspended.
- `resource_set` (String)
- `start_delay` (Number) Number of seconds the VM should be delayed from starting.
- `tags` (Set of String) The tags (labels) applied to the given entity.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `vga` (String) The video adapter the VM should use. Possible values include std and cirrus.
- `videoram` (Number) The videoram option the VM should use. Possible values include 1, 2, 4, 8, 16
- `wait_for_ip` (Boolean) Whether terraform should wait until IP addresses are present on the VM's network interfaces before considering it created. This only works if guest-tools are installed in the VM. Defaults to false.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `ipv4_addresses` (List of String) This is only accessible if guest-tools is installed in the VM and if `wait_for_ip` is set to true. This will contain a list of the ipv4 addresses across all network interfaces in order. See the example terraform code for more details.
- `ipv6_addresses` (List of String) This is only accessible if guest-tools is installed in the VM and if `wait_for_ip` is set to true. This will contain a list of the ipv6 addresses across all network interfaces in order.

<a id="nestedblock--disk"></a>
### Nested Schema for `disk`

Required:

- `name_label` (String) The name for the disk
- `size` (Number) The size in bytes for the disk.
- `sr_id` (String) The storage repository ID to use.

Optional:

- `attached` (Boolean) Whether the device should be attached to the VM.
- `name_description` (String) The description for the disk

Read-Only:

- `position` (String) Indicates the order of the block device.
- `vbd_id` (String)
- `vdi_id` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required:

- `network_id` (String) The ID of the network the VM will be on.

Optional:

- `attached` (Boolean) Whether the device should be attached to the VM.
- `mac_address` (String) The mac address of the network interface. This must be parsable by go's [net.ParseMAC function](https://golang.org/pkg/net/#ParseMAC). All mac addresses are stored in Terraform's state with [HardwareAddr's string representation](https://golang.org/pkg/net/#HardwareAddr.String) i.e. 00:00:5e:00:53:01

Read-Only:

- `device` (String)
- `ipv4_addresses` (List of String)
- `ipv6_addresses` (List of String)


<a id="nestedblock--cdrom"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cdrom`

Required:

- `id` (String) The ID of the ISO (VDI) to attach to the VM. This can be easily provided by using the `vdi` data source.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `update` (String)
